Abstract
A large loss occurs in the combine harvesting of rapeseeds due to the fragility of rapeseed pods, and all the more so with the vibration of the combine header and the collision between the header and plants. Seed loss is greatly affected by the biomechanical properties of ready-to-harvest rapeseed plants. To understand the mechanism of pod cracking and seed loss and to propose measures for alleviating them, it is needed to study the biomechanical properties of ready-to-harvest rapeseed plants. To this end, “Huayouza 62”, a widely planted rapeseed variety in central China, was selected to study the biomechanical properties, including pod-cracking resistance, main stem-shearing resistance and resonant frequencies, of whole plants. The results showed that the distribution of pod-cracking resistance forces was 1.333–6.100 N in the mature stage, and the pod width and thickness had a significant influence on the cracking resistance. The main influencing factor of the main stem-shearing resistance was the stem diameter. A thicker main stem resulted in a larger shearing resistance force but a smaller shear stress. The moisture contents of the main stems varied from 47.71% to 76.13%. However, the varying moisture contents did not show a significant impact on the shearing resistance. The resonant frequencies of whole rapeseed plants ready for harvest ranged from 6.5 Hz to 7.5 Hz, which was close to the excitation frequency of the cutter bar on the 4LL-1.5Y harvester. This study lays a foundation for improving the design and construction of harvesting devices for rapeseed plants to reduce seed loss.
Keywords
Rapeseed podCracking resistanceShearing resistanceResonant frequencyRapeseed harvesting
1. Introduction
Oilseed rape is one of the main oil crops in the world. Rapeseed seedlings can grow into tall plants with thick stems and intertwined branches [1]. The rapeseed pods become fragile and easily split open when the seeds ripen, and the pods on the upper and lower stems of the plants can ripen at different stages [2], [3], [4]. During the combine-harvesting process, rapeseed pods can easily crack due to drag by the divider and flipping by the fingers of the reel, causing a significant amount of seed loss [5], [6], [7], [8], [9]. In the meantime, the spinning of the reel and the reciprocating motion of the cutter bar generate a changing inertia, causing the combine header to vibrate [10], [11], [12], [13]. This vibration can be transferred to the plants, intensifying pod cracking [14], [15], [16], [17]. In machine harvesting, the loss caused by pod cracking account for approximately 8–12% of the total loss. If harvest is delayed, the loss can reach 20%.

The physical and mechanical properties of agricultural plants and products are significant influencing factors in designing the working parameters of agricultural machinery. Recently, a number of studies have been conducted on the biomechanical properties of different agricultural materials, such as hydroponic lettuce [18], maize stalks [19], cotton stalks [20], and rapeseed stalks [21]. Since the biomechanical properties of rapeseed plants greatly influence the harvesting process, a number of studies have been conducted to determine the major properties related to harvest loss. Overall, studies on the biomechanical properties of rapeseed plants have mainly focused on measuring the biomechanical parameters of rapeseed pods and stems through experimental methods. Studies on rapeseed pod cracking have mainly focused on the measurement of cracking resistance [22], [23], [24], the factors affecting it [25], [26], [27], and comparisons between different rapeseed varieties [28]. Studies on the static mechanical properties of rapeseed stems have mainly focused on the measurement of shear stresses, bending stresses, specific shear energies and Young's modulus [29], [30], [31], as well as the influence of different factors, such as the stem diameter, cutting speed, cutting position and different blade types [32], [33].

The biomechanical properties of rapeseed plants have been studied extensively by researchers from around the world. However, previous studies focused mainly on a single property, and a comprehensive study of multiple biomechanical properties is lacking. The measurement of pod-cracking resistance can provide an important guideline in selecting superior rapeseed varieties. The varieties with stronger anti-cracking forces can surely withstand more mechanical vibrations and collisions during harvesting, and a smaller harvest loss can be anticipated. The majority of oilseed rape harvesters in China are modified based on rice harvesters, and their adaptabilities vary. The mechanical properties of rape stalks, especially the shear resistance of the main stems, are important parameters in designing harvester cutter blades and selecting their cutting speeds. An effective, efficient harvester-cutting mechanism could not be realized without an analysis of the mechanical properties of the stems to be cut. When the harvester is working, various components move. The forms of movements are complex, and the working conditions vary [34], which leads to vibration of the whole machine and changing stress in the structural parts [35]. When the vibration frequency is in proximity to the natural frequencies of the plants, resonance can occur, which causes serious pod falling and cracking [11]. More importantly, there is a lack of reports on the vibrational properties of ready-to-harvest rapeseed plants. Therefore, a comprehensive study on the pod-cracking resistances, stem shear stresses and natural frequencies of rapeseed plants was conducted.

The objective of this study is to determine the biomechanical properties that are most relevant to seed loss during combine harvesting of “Huayouza 62”, a widely planted rapeseed variety in central China. To this end, three groups of experiments were designed and performed. The first group of experiments aimed to determine the range of pod-cracking resistance and the influences of moisture content and pod size. The second group aimed to determine the range of shearing resistance of the main stems and its influencing factors. The third group aimed to determine the resonant frequencies of whole rapeseed plants and the seed loss ratios under such frequencies. The contribution of this study is that through an experimental study of the biomechanical properties of ready-to-harvest rapeseed plants, the parameters of rapeseed pod cracking and seed loss during machine harvest were determined, and a theoretical reference for improving the design and construction of the harvester-cutting mechanism to reduce seed loss was provided.

1. Introduction
Oilseed rape is one of the main oil crops in the world. Rapeseed seedlings can grow into tall plants with thick stems and intertwined branches [1]. The rapeseed pods become fragile and easily split open when the seeds ripen, and the pods on the upper and lower stems of the plants can ripen at different stages [2], [3], [4]. During the combine-harvesting process, rapeseed pods can easily crack due to drag by the divider and flipping by the fingers of the reel, causing a significant amount of seed loss [5], [6], [7], [8], [9]. In the meantime, the spinning of the reel and the reciprocating motion of the cutter bar generate a changing inertia, causing the combine header to vibrate [10], [11], [12], [13]. This vibration can be transferred to the plants, intensifying pod cracking [14], [15], [16], [17]. In machine harvesting, the loss caused by pod cracking account for approximately 8–12% of the total loss. If harvest is delayed, the loss can reach 20%.

The physical and mechanical properties of agricultural plants and products are significant influencing factors in designing the working parameters of agricultural machinery. Recently, a number of studies have been conducted on the biomechanical properties of different agricultural materials, such as hydroponic lettuce [18], maize stalks [19], cotton stalks [20], and rapeseed stalks [21]. Since the biomechanical properties of rapeseed plants greatly influence the harvesting process, a number of studies have been conducted to determine the major properties related to harvest loss. Overall, studies on the biomechanical properties of rapeseed plants have mainly focused on measuring the biomechanical parameters of rapeseed pods and stems through experimental methods. Studies on rapeseed pod cracking have mainly focused on the measurement of cracking resistance [22], [23], [24], the factors affecting it [25], [26], [27], and comparisons between different rapeseed varieties [28]. Studies on the static mechanical properties of rapeseed stems have mainly focused on the measurement of shear stresses, bending stresses, specific shear energies and Young's modulus [29], [30], [31], as well as the influence of different factors, such as the stem diameter, cutting speed, cutting position and different blade types [32], [33].

The biomechanical properties of rapeseed plants have been studied extensively by researchers from around the world. However, previous studies focused mainly on a single property, and a comprehensive study of multiple biomechanical properties is lacking. The measurement of pod-cracking resistance can provide an important guideline in selecting superior rapeseed varieties. The varieties with stronger anti-cracking forces can surely withstand more mechanical vibrations and collisions during harvesting, and a smaller harvest loss can be anticipated. The majority of oilseed rape harvesters in China are modified based on rice harvesters, and their adaptabilities vary. The mechanical properties of rape stalks, especially the shear resistance of the main stems, are important parameters in designing harvester cutter blades and selecting their cutting speeds. An effective, efficient harvester-cutting mechanism could not be realized without an analysis of the mechanical properties of the stems to be cut. When the harvester is working, various components move. The forms of movements are complex, and the working conditions vary [34], which leads to vibration of the whole machine and changing stress in the structural parts [35]. When the vibration frequency is in proximity to the natural frequencies of the plants, resonance can occur, which causes serious pod falling and cracking [11]. More importantly, there is a lack of reports on the vibrational properties of ready-to-harvest rapeseed plants. Therefore, a comprehensive study on the pod-cracking resistances, stem shear stresses and natural frequencies of rapeseed plants was conducted.

The objective of this study is to determine the biomechanical properties that are most relevant to seed loss during combine harvesting of “Huayouza 62”, a widely planted rapeseed variety in central China. To this end, three groups of experiments were designed and performed. The first group of experiments aimed to determine the range of pod-cracking resistance and the influences of moisture content and pod size. The second group aimed to determine the range of shearing resistance of the main stems and its influencing factors. The third group aimed to determine the resonant frequencies of whole rapeseed plants and the seed loss ratios under such frequencies. The contribution of this study is that through an experimental study of the biomechanical properties of ready-to-harvest rapeseed plants, the parameters of rapeseed pod cracking and seed loss during machine harvest were determined, and a theoretical reference for improving the design and construction of the harvester-cutting mechanism to reduce seed loss was provided.

2. Materials and methods
2.1. Measurement of pod-cracking resistance
The materials used in the experiments were collected from the experimental farm of Huazhong Agricultural University. The planted rapeseed was “Huayouza 62”, a winter Brassica napus variety developed by researchers of Huazhong Agricultural University in 2011 and now widely planted in central China. When preparing the samples, five patches were randomly chosen from the experimental farm. On each patch, four plants that were pest free and well grown were cut, and on each plant, seven ripe, full pods were picked and collected. Thus, 140 rapeseed pods in total were prepared.

The equipment used in the test included an electronic universal testing machine (model RGM-3005, Reger, Inc., China), a moisture analyzer (model MB45, OHAUS Corporation, USA) and an electronic caliper (model MNT-150T, MNT, Germany). The parameters of the equipment are shown in Table 1.

Table 1. Parameters of the equipment used in the measurement of pod-cracking resistance.
The cracking resistance of the rapeseed pods was measured by an electronic universal testing machine using the impending fracturing method, as shown in Fig. 1. The pod was placed on the testbed and supported at both ends while the load was slowly added from the top. The displacement of the load and corresponding resistance force of the pod were recorded during the process.
To determine the influences of moisture content and pod size on pod-cracking resistance, the moisture contents, lengths, widths in the middle, and thicknesses in the middle of the 140 samples were measured by a moisture analyzer and electronic caliper.

2.2. Measurement of shearing resistance of the main stems
The samples were collected from the same experimental farm as mentioned above. The diameters of the main stems of rapeseed plants ranged from 6 to 16 mm. To determine the influence of stem diameters on the shearing resistance, the 6–16 mm range was divided into 11 levels with 1-mm intervals. Three samples were picked at each level, and 33 samples were collected. The moisture content may also influence the shearing resistance of the main stems, and to determine it, another seven samples with a 12-mm diameter were collected, and their moisture contents were measured using the MB45 moisture analyzer. When preparing the samples, the main stems were cut at the bottom, and the upper and lower portions from the first branch point were kept. As shown in Figs. 2 and 3, each sample had a length of 140 mm, 70 mm to the first branch point from both sides.
The main instrument used in this measurement was a texture analyzer (model TMS-Pro, FT Corporation, USA). The parameters of the equipment are shown in Table 2. The measuring process using the texture analyzer is shown in Fig. 4. The cutting speed was set at 30 mm/min, and the return distance was 40 mm.
2.3. Measurement of resonant frequencies of whole plants
It is important to study the pod-cracking resistance of different rapeseed varieties and its influencing factors. In the previous studies, the effects of pod physical parameters and moisture content on pod cracking were studied for the purpose of optimizing breeding and determining the appropriate harvest time to reduce seed loss [15], [36]. In this experiment, whole rapeseed plants, which were pest free and well grown, were cut and collected from five randomly chosen patches of the experimental farm. Vibrations of different frequencies were generated using a hydraulic vibration shaker (model ES-3, Sushi Testing Instrument, China). The main specifications of the vibration shaker are shown in Table 3. First, the frequency range within which the plants showed severe vibrations was determined by a sweep frequency test. The shaker generated vibrations of gradually increasing frequencies from 1 Hz to 40 Hz. Then, tests of fixed frequencies were performed. For each frequency, the vibration lasted 180 s in one test, and three tests were repeated. To avoid interference from nearby stems, only one main stem was clamped on the shaker in each test. During the tests, the movements of the plants were recorded by a high-speed photography system (PCO. dimax HD, PCO AG, Germany). As shown in Fig. 5, a high-speed video camera filmed the movements of the plants with grid paper (resolution 1 mm) in the background. The parameters of the high-speed camera are shown in Table 4. The shooting speed of the camera was set at 200 frames/s. The video frames were then uploaded to a laptop for processing and calculation. To determine the resonant frequencies, pods at five different parts of the plants were selected to measure the horizontal and vertical vibration amplitudes, as shown in Fig. 6. The frames saved on the laptop were manually compared, and vibration amplitudes were measured and averaged. The frequencies with maximum amplitudes were determined as the resonant frequencies of the plants.